### Contents of the folder

1. `pascal_parserGenerator.y`
2. `pascal_parserGenerator.c`
3. `pascal_lexicalAnalyser.l`
4. `pascal_lexicalAnalyser.c`
4. `HashTable.txt`
5. `input.pas`

### General overview of the problem and explanation of lex:
(The problem was solved in ubuntu environment)
1. In the given problem, we are asked to generate parser for PASCAL using YACC.YACC is a tool which generator parser generator given the grammar and tokens generated from lexical analyser. 
2. Any parser generator is generally used to identify the grammar. As BNF grammar was given in the question, appropriate grammar rules and actions have been coded in the yacc file.  
3. This parser generator takes tokens which were generated by lexical analyser( I have used same logic as my previous assignment to generate this lexical analyser also).
4. Hash table is created to store all identifiers and its relevant information like whether it was declared with type, whther it was initialised.djb2 hash function is used to get the index.100 is taken as the size of hash table.  
5. `install_id()` is auxiliary functions implemented to insert into the hash table (identifiers or constants), if they are not already present. 
6. `HashTable.txt` shows the table,indices and their contents.  
7. Here only Integers and Floats are allowed as constants as mentioned in the BNF grammar. So,Only integers are considered for constants.Any other invalid characters\tokens not following the given BNF grammar will result in wrong output being produced.  
8. I have used flex to generate the lexical analyser, so the flex must be installed.  
9. Empty lines are skipped. Any input which doesnot follow the grammar gives error message printed on the terminal. If empty file is given as input, it will print error message as any program must have `PROGRAM` as the start word.
10. If any identifier is undeclared, then all its operations are not considered, as in pascal all types must be declared before itself.Thus is_initialised will be shown 0, if it was not declared before.
11. If any id is undeclared, then its type also wont be known, similarly other errors could come.

### To run the given program(This program runs in linux environment)

0. `sudo apt install flex`
1. `sudo apt install bison-flex`
2. `yacc -o pascal_parserGenerator.c -Wnone pascal_parserGenerator.y`
3. `flex -o pascal_lexicalAnalyser.c pascal_lexicalAnalyser.l`
4.  `gcc -o pascal_lexicalAnalyser pascal_lexicalAnalyser.c`
5. `./pascal_lexicalAnalyser < input.pas`

6. `./pascal_lexicalAnalyser < input_error1.pas`
7. `./pascal_lexicalAnalyser < input_error2.pas`
8. `./pascal_lexicalAnalyser < input_error3.pas`